# CactEcoDB
CactEcoDB: A resource of spatial, ecological, trait, phylogenetic, and diversification rate data for the cactus family (Cactaceae)

Abstract:
CactEcoDB (The Cactaceae Ecological Database) is an Open Access dataset integrating curated spatial, ecological, trait, phylogenetic, and diversification data for over 1,000 species of the cactus family. Cacti are a morphologically and ecologically diverse succulent plant family, widely distributed across the Americas and highly adapted to diverse environments, with highest species richness in arid and semi-arid environments. Despite their ecological and cultural importance, and their high extinction risk, comprehensive and integrated eco-evolutionary data resources for Cactaceae remain limited.  CactEcoDB provides species-level trait data, curated geographic occurrence records, environmental variables, geographic range size estimates, and a large time-scaled molecular phylogeny. We also provide diversification rate estimates, including species-specific tip rates. All data have undergone validation and are suitable for comparative ecological, evolutionary, and conservation research. By making these resources publicly available, CactEcoDB provides a foundation for future studies on trait evolution, trait–environment relationships, biogeography, climatic niche evolution, and macroevolutionary patterns across one of the most iconic and threatened plant families.

This is a follow up to our Nature Communications article (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-51666-2), however, we have significantly improved the quality and quanitity of morphological and (particularly) spatial-derived variables.  We were invited to submit to Nature Scientific Data.

We encourage and value submissions to fill gaps in data!  Get in contact.
